README.md, before:


![Build Status](https://github.com/BioComputingUP/idpo/actions/workflows/qc.yml/badge.svg)
# Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Ontology

The Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Ontology (IDPO) defines concepts and relationships that describe the structural states, dynamic transitions, and functional roles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) and intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Its terms and definitions are grounded in the terminology used by the IDP research community and derived from scientific literature in the field.

IDPO’s primary goal is to harmonize vocabulary across experimental and computational studies, enabling consistent annotation of IDP-related data and supporting integration and interoperability across biomedical and structural biology resources. By standardizing terms, IDPO facilitates data sharing, knowledge discovery, and collaboration within the protein disorder research community. IDPO is used by the [DisProt database](https://disprot.org/) to provide ontology-driven, standardized annotation of intrinsically disordered proteins and regions, improving data consistency and enabling richer cross-database integration.

IDPO is maintained by the [IDP Community](https://elixir-europe.org/communities/intrinsically-disordered-proteins) and supported by the [ELIXIR Infrastructure](https://elixir-europe.org/).


More information can be found at http://obofoundry.org/ontology/idpo

## Versions

### Stable release versions

The latest version of the ontology can always be found at:

http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/idpo.owl


### Editors' version

Editors of this ontology should use the edit version, [src/ontology/idpo-edit.owl](src/ontology/idpo-edit.owl)

## License

[CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

## Contact

Please use this GitHub repository's [Issue tracker](https://github.com/BioComputingUP/idpo/issues) to request new terms/classes or report errors or specific concerns related to the ontology.

## Acknowledgements

This ontology repository was created using the [Ontology Development Kit (ODK)](https://github.com/INCATools/ontology-development-kit).

Commit message:

feat(license): add Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License and update README

README.md, after:

[![CC BY 4.0][cc-by-shield]][cc-by]
![Build Status](https://github.com/BioComputingUP/idpo/actions/workflows/qc.yml/badge.svg)

[cc-by]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[cc-by-image]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg


# Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Ontology

The Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Ontology (IDPO) defines concepts and relationships that describe the structural states, dynamic transitions, and functional roles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) and intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Its terms and definitions are grounded in the terminology used by the IDP research community and derived from scientific literature in the field.

IDPO’s primary goal is to harmonize vocabulary across experimental and computational studies, enabling consistent annotation of IDP-related data and supporting integration and interoperability across biomedical and structural biology resources. By standardizing terms, IDPO facilitates data sharing, knowledge discovery, and collaboration within the protein disorder research community. IDPO is used by the [DisProt database](https://disprot.org/) to provide ontology-driven, standardized annotation of intrinsically disordered proteins and regions, improving data consistency and enabling richer cross-database integration.

IDPO is maintained by the [IDP Community](https://elixir-europe.org/communities/intrinsically-disordered-proteins) and supported by the [ELIXIR Infrastructure](https://elixir-europe.org/).


More information can be found at http://obofoundry.org/ontology/idpo

## Versions

### Stable release versions

The latest version of the ontology can always be found at:

http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/idpo.owl


### Editors' version

Editors of this ontology should use the edit version, [src/ontology/idpo-edit.owl](src/ontology/idpo-edit.owl)

## License

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License][cc-by].

## Contact

Please use this GitHub repository's [Issue tracker](https://github.com/BioComputingUP/idpo/issues) to request new terms/classes or report errors or specific concerns related to the ontology.

## Acknowledgements

This ontology repository was created using the [Ontology Development Kit (ODK)](https://github.com/INCATools/ontology-development-kit).
